content/uiux/journey-map/journey-map.md, before:

---
Title: 'Journey Maps'
Description: 'The visualization of the process that a user goes through to accomplish a goal using the application.'
Subjects: 
- 'Web Design'
- 'Web Development'
Tags:
- 'UI'
- 'UX'
- 'Design'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-ui-ux'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

A journey map is a visualization of a person's process to accomplish a goal. In basic form, the journey mapping starts by compiling a series of user actions into a timeline. Then, the timeline is fleshed out with user thoughts and emotions to create a narrative that best fits that user's persona throughout the customer's journey. 

## How Journey Mapping Is Used In UX**
 The Journey Map, helps teams understand and visualize the end-to-end experience of a user as they interact with a product or service. They provide a comprehensive view of the user's interactions, emotions, and touchpoints throughout their journey. These maps are a versatile tool in UX design that aids in understanding, visualizing, and improving the overall user experience by providing a holistic view of the user's journey.

![Steps to follow in creating a Journey Map](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/journey-map.jpg)

Commit message:

fix: add sentence before image

content/uiux/journey-map/journey-map.md, after:

---
Title: 'Journey Maps'
Description: 'The visualization of the process that a user goes through to accomplish a goal using the application.'
Subjects: 
- 'Web Design'
- 'Web Development'
Tags:
- 'UI'
- 'UX'
- 'Design'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-ui-ux'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

A journey map is a visualization of a person's process to accomplish a goal. In basic form, the journey mapping starts by compiling a series of user actions into a timeline. Then, the timeline is fleshed out with user thoughts and emotions to create a narrative that best fits that user's persona throughout the customer's journey. 

## How Journey Mapping Is Used In UX
 The Journey Map, helps teams understand and visualize the end-to-end experience of a user as they interact with a product or service. They provide a comprehensive view of the user's interactions, emotions, and touchpoints throughout their journey. These maps are a versatile tool in UX design that aids in understanding, visualizing, and improving the overall user experience by providing a holistic view of the user's journey.

The image below gives the steps involved in creation of Journey Maps.
![Steps to follow in creating a Journey Map](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/journey-map.jpg)
