content/css/concepts/colors/terms/lch/lch.md, before:

---
Title: 'lch()'
Description: 'Defines a color using lightness, chroma, and hue values in the perceptually uniform LCH color space.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Colors'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Style'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`lch()`** function defines colors using the LCH (Lightness, Chroma, Hue) color space, introduced in CSS Color Module Level 4. LCH is perceptually uniform, meaning equal changes in values produce roughly equal perceived changes in color.

## Syntax

```pseudo
<property>: lch(lightness chroma hue / alpha);
```

**Parameters:**

- `lightness`: A percentage value from `0%` to `100%`. Represents the brightness of the color. `0%` is completely black, `100%` is completely white, and `50%` represents the mid-tone.
- `chroma`: A number value (typically `0` to `150` or higher). Represents the colorfulness or intensity of the color. `0` represents a neutral gray with no color, while higher values represent more vivid colors.
- `hue`: An angle value on the color wheel. It can be given with units like `deg`, `rad`, or `turn`, or as a unitless number interpreted as degrees. Angles wrap, so they are not limited to `0`–`360`; for reference, `0deg` represents red, `120deg` represents green, and `240deg` represents blue.
- `alpha` (optional): A number from `0` to `1`, or a percentage from `0%` to `100%`, representing the opacity of the color. `0` (or `0%`) is fully transparent, `1` (or `100%`) is fully opaque. Defaults to `1` if omitted.

**Return value:**

None. The `lch()` function produces a color value that can be used in CSS properties such as `color`, [`background-color`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/background/background-color), or [`border-color`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/borders/border-color).

## Example 1

The following example sets the font color of the `h1` element to a vibrant orange-yellow color with medium lightness:

```css
h1 {
  color: lch(50% 100 50);
}
```

![lch() Example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-1.jpg)

## Example 2

The following example sets the font color of the `p` element to a light purple color with moderate chroma:

```css
p {
  color: lch(70% 50 260);
}
```

![lch() Example 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-2.jpg)

## Example 3

This example sets the background color of the `div` element to a semi-transparent green color with 50% opacity:

```css
div {
  background-color: lch(60% 80 120 / 0.5);
}
```

![lch() Example 3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-3.jpg)

Commit message:

Improve alt text for lch() examples
Updated image alt text for clarity in examples.

content/css/concepts/colors/terms/lch/lch.md, after:

---
Title: 'lch()'
Description: 'Defines a color using lightness, chroma, and hue values in the perceptually uniform LCH color space.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Colors'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Style'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`lch()`** function defines colors using the LCH (Lightness, Chroma, Hue) color space, introduced in CSS Color Module Level 4. LCH is perceptually uniform, meaning equal changes in values produce roughly equal perceived changes in color.

## Syntax

```pseudo
<property>: lch(lightness chroma hue / alpha);
```

**Parameters:**

- `lightness`: A percentage value from `0%` to `100%`. Represents the brightness of the color. `0%` is completely black, `100%` is completely white, and `50%` represents the mid-tone.
- `chroma`: A number value (typically `0` to `150` or higher). Represents the colorfulness or intensity of the color. `0` represents a neutral gray with no color, while higher values represent more vivid colors.
- `hue`: An angle value on the color wheel. It can be given with units like `deg`, `rad`, or `turn`, or as a unitless number interpreted as degrees. Angles wrap, so they are not limited to `0`–`360`; for reference, `0deg` represents red, `120deg` represents green, and `240deg` represents blue.
- `alpha` (optional): A number from `0` to `1`, or a percentage from `0%` to `100%`, representing the opacity of the color. `0` (or `0%`) is fully transparent, `1` (or `100%`) is fully opaque. Defaults to `1` if omitted.

**Return value:**

None. The `lch()` function produces a color value that can be used in CSS properties such as `color`, [`background-color`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/background/background-color), or [`border-color`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/css/borders/border-color).

## Example 1

The following example sets the font color of the `h1` element to a vibrant orange-yellow color with medium lightness:

```css
h1 {
  color: lch(50% 100 50);
}
```

![A large h1 heading displayed in a bright orange-yellow color with medium lightness against a white background.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-1.jpg)

## Example 2

The following example sets the font color of the `p` element to a light purple color with moderate chroma:

```css
p {
  color: lch(70% 50 260);
}
```

![A paragraph of text shown in a soft, light purple color with moderate color intensity on a white background.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-2.jpg)

## Example 3

This example sets the background color of the `div` element to a semi-transparent green color with 50% opacity:

```css
div {
  background-color: lch(60% 80 120 / 0.5);
}
```

![A rectangular div with a semi-transparent green background, allowing the underlying white background to faintly show through.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/css-colors-lch-example-3.jpg)
