README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 MD002 -->
<div align="center">
  <h1>📕 Docs</h1>
  <strong>Documentation for popular programming languages and frameworks.</strong><br>
  <strong>Built by the community. Maintained by Codecademy.</strong>
</div>
<br>

## What is Docs?

[Docs](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs) is a free, easily accessible reference for coding terms and concepts, available to developers all over the world. If you forget what JavaScript hoisting is, we want you to be able to look up "JS hoisting" on any search engine, click a Doc entry, and have an answer in seconds.

## What stage of development are we in right now?

Docs is live with over 2000 high-quality entries. Now that the MVP is out, our goal is to transition some ownership of Docs content to the Codecademy community, since maintaining a resource of this type at-scale is only possible if it's open-contribution. That means we need your help, whether it's contributing, reviewing, or evangelizing!

### 📝 Content Team

- [@aherman91](https://github.com/aherman91), Curriculum Developer
- [@caupolicandiaz](https://github.com/caupolicandiaz), Content Contributor
- [@HishamT](https://github.com/HishamT), Content Contributor
- [@KTom101](https://github.com/KTom101), Content Contributor
- [@sswiniarski](https://github.com/sswiniarski), Content Contributor
- [@yangc95](https://github.com/yangc95), Content Contributor

We are currently building a team of community volunteers and educators to maintain Docs. Let us know if you are interested.

### 🏗 Engineering Team

- [@awgraves](https://github.com/awgraves)
- [@bndiep](https://github.com/bndiep)
- [@christian-dinh](https://github.com/christian-dinh)
- [@codecademy-aditya](https://github.com/codecademy-aditya)
- [@jrood](https://github.com/jrood)

## How do I contribute?

There are many ways to contribute to Docs:

1. Get assigned to an Issue of your interest.
   - Ask to be assigned to one of the [available Issues](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Aclaimed).
   - Submit a typo/bug in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/issues).
2. Submit a Pull Request for your assigned Issue.
3. Reply to the thread on [Possible Content Discussion](https://discuss.codecademy.com/t/find-a-starting-point-possible-content-discussion/745868) to share ideas and collaborate with other contributors, maintainers, or super users to determine good future issues.
4. Share your thoughts in this [Docs feedback form](https://codecademyready.typeform.com/to/hzVIWDgz) to tell us how we can improve Docs!

Whether you are a code newbie or a seasoned hacker, there's something for you!

Please read through the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). There, you'll find a write-up of our content standards and style guide, as well as templates for creating your entries.

## Additional Notes

Remember, if you ever have any questions at all, we're always here to help in the [Codecademy Forums](https://discuss.codecademy.com/c/community/community-docs/2205) and [Codecademy Discord](https://discord.com/invite/codecademy).

Commit message:

chore: add point for entry

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 MD002 -->
<div align="center">
  <h1>📕 Docs</h1>
  <strong>Documentation for popular programming languages and frameworks.</strong><br>
  <strong>Built by the community. Maintained by Codecademy.</strong>
</div>
<br>

## What is Docs?

[Docs](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs) is a free, easily accessible reference for coding terms and concepts, available to developers all over the world. If you forget what JavaScript hoisting is, we want you to be able to look up "JS hoisting" on any search engine, click a Doc entry, and have an answer in seconds.

## What stage of development are we in right now?

Docs is live with over 2000 high-quality entries. Now that the MVP is out, our goal is to transition some ownership of Docs content to the Codecademy community, since maintaining a resource of this type at-scale is only possible if it's open-contribution. That means we need your help, whether it's contributing, reviewing, or evangelizing!

### 📝 Content Team

- [@aherman91](https://github.com/aherman91), Curriculum Developer
- [@caupolicandiaz](https://github.com/caupolicandiaz), Content Contributor
- [@HishamT](https://github.com/HishamT), Content Contributor
- [@KTom101](https://github.com/KTom101), Content Contributor
- [@sswiniarski](https://github.com/sswiniarski), Content Contributor
- [@yangc95](https://github.com/yangc95), Content Contributor

We are currently building a team of community volunteers and educators to maintain Docs. Let us know if you are interested.

### 🏗 Engineering Team

- [@awgraves](https://github.com/awgraves)
- [@bndiep](https://github.com/bndiep)
- [@christian-dinh](https://github.com/christian-dinh)
- [@codecademy-aditya](https://github.com/codecademy-aditya)
- [@jrood](https://github.com/jrood)

## How do I contribute?

Here's how you can contribute to Codecademy Docs:

1. Get assigned to an Issue of your interest.
   - Ask to be assigned to one of the [available Issues](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+-label%3Aclaimed).
   - Submit a typo/bug in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/issues).
2. Write a new entry or make changes to an existing entry, based on the requirement of your Issue.
3. Submit a Pull Request of your entry for your assigned Issue.
4. Reply to the thread on [Possible Content Discussion](https://discuss.codecademy.com/t/find-a-starting-point-possible-content-discussion/745868) to share ideas and collaborate with other contributors, maintainers, or super users to determine good future issues.
5. Share your thoughts in this [Docs feedback form](https://codecademyready.typeform.com/to/hzVIWDgz) to tell us how we can improve Docs!

Whether you are a code newbie or a seasoned hacker, there's something for you!

Please read through the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). There, you'll find a write-up of our content standards and style guide, as well as templates for creating your entries.

## Additional Notes

Remember, if you ever have any questions at all, we're always here to help in the [Codecademy Forums](https://discuss.codecademy.com/c/community/community-docs/2205) and [Codecademy Discord](https://discord.com/invite/codecademy).
