---
Title: '.pie()'
Description:  'Creates a pie chart of array x.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Libraries'
  - 'Matplotlib'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

The **`.pie()`** method in the matplotlib library is used to draw a pie chart, showing the percentage of the parts with respect to the whole data.

## Syntax

```pseudo
matplotlib.pyplot.pie(x, explode, labels, colors, autopct, pctdistance, shadow, labeldistance, startangle, radius, counterclock, wedgeprops, textprops, center, frame, rotatelabels, normalize, hatch, data)
```

'x' parameter is required, and represents a 1D array-like object. Other parameters are optional and modify plot features like wedge colors and/or labels.

`.pie()` takes the following arguments:

-  `x`: 1D array-like object that specifies the wedge sizes.

-  `explode`: Array-like object which specifies the fraction of the radius with which to offset each wedge.

-  `labels`: List of strings providing the labels for each wedge.

-  `colors`: Array-like sequence of colors through which the pie chart will cycle.

-  `autopct`: A string or function used to label the wedges with their numeric value. The label will be placed inside the wedge.

-  `pctdistance`: Float that sets the relative distance along the radius at which the the text generated by _autopct_ is drawn.

-  `shadow`: Boolean value, draws a shadow beneath the pie.

-  `labeldistance`: Float that sets the relative distance along the radius at which the labels are drawn.

-  `startangle`: Float that sets the angle by which the start of the pie is rotated, counterclockwise from the x-axis.

-  `radius`: Float that sets the radius of the pie.

-  `counterclock`: Boolean to specify fractions direction, clockwise or counterclockwise.

-  `wedgeprops`: Dict of arguments passed to each `patches.Wedge`

-  `textprops`: Dict of arguments to pass to the text objects.

-  `center`: (float, float), the coordinates of the center of the chart.

-  `frame`: Bool, plot Axes frame with the chart if true.

-  `rotatelabels`: Rotate each label to the angle of the corresponding slice if true.

-  `normalize`: Bool, When _True_, always make a full pie by normalizing x. _False_makes a partial pie.

-  `hatch`: Str or list, Hatching pattern applied to all pie wedges or sequence of patterns through which the chart will cycle.

  
