content/python/concepts/deque/deque.md, before:

---
Title: 'deque'
Description: 'The deque is a Python data structure that allows efficient oppend and pop operations from both ends.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'Queues'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'

---

The **deque**, short for Double-ended queue, is a [Python](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python) data structure that efficiently adds and removes elements from both ends. It is a component of the [collections module](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/collections-module) and serves as an alternative to the list for scenarios where frequent insertions and deletions occur at both ends. Deques are notably advantageous when a queue is needed to enable fast appends and pops from both ends or when a stack is required to support the same operations efficiently.

## Syntax

```pseudo
from collections import deque
d = deque([iterable[, maxlen]])
```

## Example

In this syntax, deque() creates a new deque object, which can be initialized with an optional iterable and a maximum length. The append() and appendleft() methods add items to the right and left ends, respectively.

**numbers_deque = deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])**
**a = deque(maxlen=3)**

```py

# Start by importing the deque class from the collections module.
from collections import deque

# Create a deque variable containing a list of numbers.
a = deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

# Append the number 6 to the right end of the deque using the append() method.
b.append(6)

# Append a number to the left end using the appendleft() method.
j.appendleft(0)

# Pop a number from the right end of the deque using the pop() method.
e.pop()

# Pop a number from the left end using the popleft() method.
m.popleft()

# Print the contents of the deque variable.
print(a)

The pop() and popleft() methods remove items from the corresponding ends. The rotate() method moves elements from one end to the other, effectively rotating the deque.

Output:
deque([0, 1, 2, 3, 4])

```

## Equivalent Methods for Stacks and Queues

- Stacks: A stack operates on the Last In, First Out (LIFO) principle, where pushing (adding an item) is done with `.append()` to the right end, and popping (removing the most recent item) is performed using `.pop()` from the right end.
- Queues: A queue, based on the First In, First Out (FIFO) principle, utilizes `.append()` at the right end for adding (enqueueing) and `.popleft()` from the left end for removing (dequeuing).

Commit message:

Made further changes and removed the .pop and .popleft

content/python/concepts/deque/deque.md, after:

---
Title: 'deque'
Description: 'The deque is a Python data structure that allows efficient oppend and pop operations from both ends.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'Queues'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'

---

The **deque**, short for Double-ended queue, is a [Python](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python) data structure that efficiently adds and removes elements from both ends. It is a component of the [collections module](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/collections-module) and serves as an alternative to the list for scenarios where frequent insertions and deletions occur at both ends. Deques are notably advantageous when a queue is needed to enable fast appends and pops from both ends or when a stack is required to support the same operations efficiently.

## Syntax

```pseudo
from collections import deque
d = deque([iterable[, maxlen]])
```

## Example

In this syntax, deque() creates a new deque object, which can be initialized with an optional iterable and a maximum length.

**numbers_deque = deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])**
**a = deque(maxlen=3)**

```py

# Start by importing the deque class from the collections module.
from collections import deque

# Create a deque variable containing a list of numbers.
a = deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])
print(a)

# Create a deque string variable.
b = ('Hello')
print(b)

# Create a integer deque variable.
j = (645)
print(j)

# Create a deque range variable.
e = deque(range(7,21,27))
print(e)

# Create a deque float variable.
m = (100.56)
print(m)

# Print the contents of the deque variable.
print(a)


Output:
deque([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

```

## Equivalent Methods for Stacks and Queues

- Stacks: A stack operates on the Last In, First Out (LIFO) principle, where pushing (adding an item) is done with `.append()` to the right end, and popping (removing the most recent item) is performed using `.pop()` from the right end.
- Queues: A queue, based on the First In, First Out (FIFO) principle, utilizes `.append()` at the right end for adding (enqueueing) and `.popleft()` from the left end for removing (dequeuing).
