content/rust/concepts/data-types/data-types.md, before:

---
Title: 'Data-Types'
Description: 'Data types are a classification that specifies which type of value a variable can hold and which operations can be performed on that variable.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Control Flow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'rust-for-programmers'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Data types** serve to define the nature of data a variable can store. Rust employs static typing, ensuring that variable types are known at compile time, aiding in the detection of potential errors before runtime. These data types are broadly categorized into two groups: primitive types and compound types.

## Primitive types || scala types

Scala types represent a single value.

- Integer
- Floating-Point
- Boolean
- Character

## Compound Types

compund types represent multiple values and can group them together.

- tuples
- arrays

## Examples

The first example shows the primitive data types and the second example shows the compound data types respectively.

```rust
fn main() {
    // Integer Type
    let integer_num: i32 = 42;

    // Floating-Point Type
    let float_num: f64 = 3.14;

    // Boolean Type
    let is_rust_cool: bool = true;

    // Character Type
    let unicode_char: char = 'A';

    // Printing the values
    println!("Integer: {}", integer_num);
    println!("Floating-Point: {}", float_num);
    println!("Boolean: {}", is_rust_cool);
    println!("Character: {}", unicode_char);
}

```

```rust
fn main() {
    // Tuple
    let person: (&str, usize, bool) = ("Alice", 30, true);

    // Accessing tuple elements
    let name = person.0;
    let age = person.1;
    let is_adult = person.2;

    // Array
    let numbers: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // Accessing array elements
    let first_number = numbers[0];
    let second_number = numbers[1];

    // Printing tuple and array elements
    println!("Person: {} is {} years old. Adult: {}", name, age, is_adult);
    println!("Array: [{}, {}]", first_number, second_number);
}
```

Commit message:

added disc for integer & floating points

content/rust/concepts/data-types/data-types.md, after:

---
Title: 'Data-Types'
Description: 'Data types are a classification that specifies which type of value a variable can hold and which operations can be performed on that variable.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Conditionals'
  - 'Control Flow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'rust-for-programmers'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Data types** serve to define the nature of data a variable can store. Rust employs static typing, ensuring that variable types are known at compile time, aiding in the detection of potential errors before runtime. These data types are broadly categorized into two groups: primitive types and compound types.

## Primitive types || scala types

Scala types represent a single value.

### Integer

An integer in rust is a number without a fractional component.The singend integer starts with an i followed by the bit number and unsigned integer part starts with u followed by the bit number.The built in integer types in rust include 8bit, 16bit, 32bit,64bit and 128bit.

### Floating-Point

A floating-point data type represents numbers with decimal point. the built-in floating-point types are f32 and f64 wich are 32 bits and 64 bits in size respectively.the defult size is f64 aand all floating points are signed.

### Boolean

### Character

## Compound Types

Compund types represent multiple values and can group them together.

- tuples
- arrays

## Examples

The first example shows the primitive data types and the second example shows the compound data types respectively.

```rust
fn main() {
    // Integer Type
    let integer_num: i32 = 42;

    // Floating-Point Type
    let float_num: f64 = 3.14;

    // Boolean Type
    let is_rust_cool: bool = true;

    // Character Type
    let unicode_char: char = 'A';

    // Printing the values
    println!("Integer: {}", integer_num);
    println!("Floating-Point: {}", float_num);
    println!("Boolean: {}", is_rust_cool);
    println!("Character: {}", unicode_char);
}

```

```rust
fn main() {
    // Tuple
    let person: (&str, usize, bool) = ("Alice", 30, true);

    // Accessing tuple elements
    let name = person.0;
    let age = person.1;
    let is_adult = person.2;

    // Array
    let numbers: [i32; 5] = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // Accessing array elements
    let first_number = numbers[0];
    let second_number = numbers[1];

    // Printing tuple and array elements
    println!("Person: {} is {} years old. Adult: {}", name, age, is_adult);
    println!("Array: [{}, {}]", first_number, second_number);
}
```
