content/pandas/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/concat/concat.md, before:

---
Title: 'The Title' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'A brief description.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'A tag'
  - 'A second tag'
  - 'An nth tag'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'paths/example-path'
---

[A brief definition - make sure first mention of term is in **bold**.]

## Syntax

[Text, code, images, parameters, etc. about the syntax]

## Example

[Text, code, images, etc. about example 1]

## Codebyte Example (if applicable)

We can currently support:

- Python
- JavaScript
- Ruby
- C++
- C#
- Go
- PHP

Commit message:

Added information up to the Syntax

content/pandas/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/concat/concat.md, after:

---
Title: '.concat()'
Description: 'Concatenates multiple Dataframes or Series along a particular axis'
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Pandas'
  - 'CSV'
  - 'Data'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-Data-Analysis-with-Pandas'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

The `.concat()` function is used to concatenate and combine multiple [`DataFrames`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pandas/dataframe) or [`Series`] along a particular axis.

## Syntax

```pseudo
pandas.concat(objs)
```

The `objs` parameter is essential and must be specified. It represents the objects to be concatenated and can be a sequence or mapping of pandas Series or DataFrame objects. The objects should be passed as a sequence (like a list or tuple) or a mapping (like a dictionary).

## Example

[Text, code, images, etc. about example 1]

## Codebyte Example (if applicable)

We can currently support:

- Python
- JavaScript
- Ruby
- C++
- C#
- Go
- PHP
