content/rust/concepts/strings/strings.md, before:

---
Title: "Strings"
Description: "This entry covers creating, manipulating and referencing strings (encodings of UTF-8 sequences) in Rust."
Subjects:
  - "Computer Science"
  - "Code Foundations"
CatalogContent:
  - "concepts/slices/sliced.md"
  - "paths/computer-science"
---
**`Strings`** in Rust diverge a little bit from conventional programming languages. The approach to string manipulation in Rust is influenced by its systems-focused design. This concept entry will provide insights into creating and manipulating strings in Rust, offering practical examples to illustrate key aspects. 
  
Tackling data structures of variable size, such as strings, can get a bit tricky, and Rust has its  spin on it. In Rust, a string is essentially a sequence of Unicode characters encoded in UTF-8. As an example - the string "Codecademy Rust concept," where each character is a valid Unicode entity – "C," "o," "d," "e," "c," and so on.
  
## String types
  
In Rust, there are two main types related to strings, each serving a specific purpose.
1. **`String`**
   - **Description:** A heap-allocated, growable, and mutable string type.
   - **Usage:** Used when dynamic string manipulation and ownership transfer are required.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let mut dynamic_string = String::from("Hello, Rust!");
     ```

2. **`&str` (String Slice)**
   - **Description:** A reference to a sequence of UTF-8 bytes, often used as a view into a `String` or a string literal.
   - **Usage:** Commonly used for string references without ownership or when dealing with parts of a string.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let string_literal: &str = "Hello, Rust!";
     ```

> [!NOTE]
> These string types cover various scenarios, from dynamic and mutable strings `String` to static and immutable string slices `&str`. The type of string should be chosen depending on specific requirements and characteristics of the data being manipulated.

  ***
    
## Syntax with Examples

There are three categories to understand the syntax of Rust strings: *creating, manipulating, and referencing* strings.

### Creating Strings

1. **Using `String::new()`**:

   ```rust
   let mut empty_string = String::new();
   ```

   This creates a new, mutable, empty `String` that can be later modified and or assigned to a variable.

2. **Using String Literals with `String::from`**:

   ```rust
   let greeting = String::from("Hello, World!");
   ```

   `String::from` allocates memory on the heap and initializes a new string with the specified string literal.

### String Manipulation
  
1. **Concatenation**
  
   In Rust, there are multiple ways to concatenate strings depending on the given strings. Here is a list of concatenation operators including examples:

   > **`+` Operator:**

   - **Usage:** concatenating two strings
   - **Ownership:** takes ownership of the left operand
   - **Borrowing:** To concatenate with a borrowed string (sliced out of another string using `&str`), it is necessary to explicitly borrow it using the `&` operator.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let hello = String::from("Hello, ");
     let world = String::from("World!");
     let hello_world = hello + &world;  // here akes ownership of 'hello'
     ```

   > **`+=` Operator:**

     - **Usage:** in-place concatenation operation
     - **Ownership:** appends to the existing string
     - **Borrowing:** It works directly with the mutable reference of the left operand.
     - **Example:**
       ```rust
       let mut hello = String::from("Hello, ");
       let world = String::from("World!");
       hello += &world;  // Appends 'World!' to the existing 'Hello, '
       ```

   > **`format!` Macro:**

     - **Usage:** creates a new string by formatting text, allowing string interpolation.
     - **Ownership:** It does not involve ownership transfer and is a convenient way to create strings without borrowing or ownership concerns.
     - **Example:**
       ```rust
       let hello = String::from("Hello, ");
       let world = String::from("World!");
       let hello_world = format!("{}{}", hello, world);  // Creates a new string without ownership issues
       ```

   > **Note:** When working with strings in Rust, it's crucial to be mindful of ownership and borrowing semantics, especially when using operators like `+`. The operator `+` is 
   used to create a new string while  and `+=` is used to modify an existing string in place. To concatenate strings with interpolation the `format!` macro provides a flexible 
   and ownership-friendly way.
  

2. **Slicing & Appending with `push_str` and `push`**:
  
     ```rust
     let mut message = String::from("Rust");
     message.push_str(" Programming");
     message.push('!');
     let part_of_message = &message[0..5];
     ```

      In the example above, `push_str` is utilized to append a string slice to the existing string `message`, `push` is used to add the character `!` to the end of the concatenated string.



### Referencing Strings

To reference parts of a string without ownership `&str` can be used as follows:

```rust
let full_string = String::from("Hello, World!");
let slice = &full_string[0..5];
```

Here, `&full_string[0..5]` creates a reference to the first five characters of `full_string`.

A certain familiarity with the described methods and operators as well as the concept of string slices is crucial to work efficiently with and fully grasp the syntax of **Rust strings**.

Commit message:

review-adjustments-02.md
- Removed dividing line 37
- changed !Note to **Note:** as suggested
- adjusted headlines as requested - added a question to the revision
- adjusted apostrophes as requested

content/rust/concepts/strings/strings.md, after:

---
Title: 'Strings'
Description: "This entry covers creating, manipulating and referencing strings (encodings of UTF-8 sequences) in Rust."
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-rust'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---
**`Strings`** in Rust diverge a little bit from conventional programming languages. The approach to string manipulation in Rust is influenced by its systems-focused design. This concept entry will provide insights into creating and manipulating strings in Rust, offering practical examples to illustrate key aspects. 
  
Tackling data structures of variable size, such as strings, can get a bit tricky, and Rust has its  spin on it. In Rust, a string is essentially a sequence of Unicode characters encoded in UTF-8. As an example - the string "Codecademy Rust concept," where each character is a valid Unicode entity – "C," "o," "d," "e," "c," and so on.
  
## String types
  
In Rust, there are two main types related to strings, each serving a specific purpose.
1. **`String`**
   - **Description:** A heap-allocated, growable, and mutable string type.
   - **Usage:** Used when dynamic string manipulation and ownership transfer are required.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let mut dynamic_string = String::from("Hello, Rust!");
     ```

2. **`&str` (String Slice)**
   - **Description:** A reference to a sequence of UTF-8 bytes, often used as a view into a `String` or a string literal.
   - **Usage:** Commonly used for string references without ownership or when dealing with parts of a string.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let string_literal: &str = "Hello, Rust!";
     ```

> **Note:** These string types cover various scenarios, from dynamic and mutable strings `String` to static and immutable string slices `&str`. The type of string should be chosen depending on specific requirements and characteristics of the data being manipulated.


## Creating Strings

1. **Using `String::new()`**:

   ```rust
   let mut empty_string = String::new();
   ```

   This creates a new, mutable, empty `String` that can be later modified and or assigned to a variable.

2. **Using String Literals with `String::from`**:

   ```rust
   let greeting = String::from("Hello, World!");
   ```

   `String::from` allocates memory on the heap and initializes a new string with the specified string literal.

## String Manipulation
  
1. **Concatenation**
  
   In Rust, there are multiple ways to concatenate strings depending on the given strings. Here is a list of concatenation operators including examples:

   > **`+` Operator:**

   - **Usage:** concatenating two strings
   - **Ownership:** takes ownership of the left operand
   - **Borrowing:** To concatenate with a borrowed string (sliced out of another string using `&str`), it is necessary to explicitly borrow it using the `&` operator.
   - **Example:**
     ```rust
     let hello = String::from("Hello, ");
     let world = String::from("World!");
     let hello_world = hello + &world;  // here akes ownership of 'hello'
     ```

   > **`+=` Operator:**

     - **Usage:** in-place concatenation operation
     - **Ownership:** appends to the existing string
     - **Borrowing:** It works directly with the mutable reference of the left operand.
     - **Example:**
       ```rust
       let mut hello = String::from("Hello, ");
       let world = String::from("World!");
       hello += &world;  // Appends 'World!' to the existing 'Hello, '
       ```

   > **`format!` Macro:**

     - **Usage:** creates a new string by formatting text, allowing string interpolation.
     - **Ownership:** It does not involve ownership transfer and is a convenient way to create strings without borrowing or ownership concerns.
     - **Example:**
       ```rust
       let hello = String::from("Hello, ");
       let world = String::from("World!");
       let hello_world = format!("{}{}", hello, world);  // Creates a new string without ownership issues
       ```

   > **Note:** When working with strings in Rust, it's crucial to be mindful of ownership and borrowing semantics, especially when using operators like `+`. The operator `+` is 
   used to create a new string while  and `+=` is used to modify an existing string in place. To concatenate strings with interpolation the `format!` macro provides a flexible 
   and ownership-friendly way.
  

2. **Slicing & Appending with `push_str` and `push`**:
  
     ```rust
     let mut message = String::from("Rust");
     message.push_str(" Programming");
     message.push('!');
     let part_of_message = &message[0..5];
     ```

      In the example above, `push_str` is utilized to append a string slice to the existing string `message`, `push` is used to add the character `!` to the end of the concatenated string.



## Referencing Strings

To reference parts of a string without ownership `&str` can be used as follows:

```rust
let full_string = String::from("Hello, World!");
let slice = &full_string[0..5];
```

Here, `&full_string[0..5]` creates a reference to the first five characters of `full_string`.

A certain familiarity with the described methods and operators as well as the concept of string slices is crucial to work efficiently with and fully grasp the syntax of **Rust strings**.
