content/uiux/concepts/hicks-law/hicks-law.md, before:

---
Title: 'Hick's law'
Description: 'Hick's law describes the time it takes for a person to make a decision based on the number of choices.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'UI'
  - 'UX'
  - 'Design'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-ui-ux'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Hick's law**, or the **Hick–Hyman law**, named after British and American psychologists William Edmund Hick and Ray Hyman, describes the time it takes for a person to make a decision based on the number of available choices introduced.

Hick’s Law states that increasing the number of choices will increase the decision time logarithmically and is represented as follows: 
RT = a + b log<sub>2</sub>(n)

![Describe image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/hickslaw-formula.png)

## Implications of Hick's Law:

It has been shown that increasing the number of choices available to an individual does not improve efficiency; but instead leads to a reduction in the individual's ability to make a decision and a lower level of user satisfaction.

When designing web interfaces, it is crucial to consider Hick’s Law and incorporate the following guidelines to facilitate decision-making time and enhance the overall user experience:

1. Limit the number of options
2. Group content
3. User of “other”
4. Hide advanced settings
5. Do not over simplify to the point of abstraction

## Example :

![Describe image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/hickslaw-examples.png)

Commit message:

Adding image description to hicks-law.md

content/uiux/concepts/hicks-law/hicks-law.md, after:

---
Title: 'Hick's law'
Description: 'Hick's law describes the time it takes for a person to make a decision based on the number of choices.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'UI'
  - 'UX'
  - 'Design'
CatalogContent:
  - 'intro-to-ui-ux'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Hick's law**, or the **Hick–Hyman law**, named after British and American psychologists William Edmund Hick and Ray Hyman, describes the time it takes for a person to make a decision based on the number of available choices introduced.

Hick’s Law states that increasing the number of choices will increase the decision time logarithmically and is represented as follows: 
RT = a + b log<sub>2</sub>(n)

![A graph representing Hick's law's logarithmic curve.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/hickslaw-formula.png)

## Implications of Hick's Law:

It has been shown that increasing the number of choices available to an individual does not improve efficiency; but instead leads to a reduction in the individual's ability to make a decision and a lower level of user satisfaction.

When designing web interfaces, it is crucial to consider Hick’s Law and incorporate the following guidelines to facilitate decision-making time and enhance the overall user experience:

1. Limit the number of options
2. Group content
3. User of “other”
4. Hide advanced settings
5. Do not over simplify to the point of abstraction

## Example :

![An illustration representing 5 examples of optimal UX design based on Hick's Law's principles.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/hickslaw-examples.png)
