content/css/concepts/background/terms/border-inline/border-inline.md, before:

---
Title: 'border-inline'
Description: 'Shorthand property that defines the width, color, and style of the inline start and inline end borders of an element.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'Borders'
  - 'Box Model'
  - 'Colors'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

Shorthand property that defines the width, color, and style of the inline start and inline end borders of an element.

The affected sides depend on the writing mode and text direction.

## Syntax

```css
border-inline: <value>;
```

By default, `border-inline` will have a style of `none` and a width of `medium`.
The default color is the value of the `color` property.

`<value>` can be one of the following:

- `border-style` defines the appearance of the border.
- `border-width` defines the thickness of the border.
- `border-color` defines the color of the border.

> **Note:** Values can be provided in any order.

## Example

Set the inline borders of the `p` element to be blue, 2 pixels thick, and solid:

```css
p {
  border-inline: 2px solid blue;
}
```

## Example

Set the inline borders of the `div` element to be red, 5 pixels thick, and dashed:

```css
div {
  border-inline: dashed 5px red;
}
```

In a left-to-right writing mode, this applies borders to the left and right sides of the element. In a right-to-left writing mode, the inline start and end sides adjust automatically.

Commit message:

Revise border-inline documentation for clarity
Updated the description and examples for the border-inline property to clarify its usage and parameters.

content/css/concepts/background/terms/border-inline/border-inline.md, after:

---
Title: 'border-inline'
Description: 'Sets the width, style, and color of an element’s inline-start and inline-end borders.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Borders'
  - 'Box Model'
  - 'Colors'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-css'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`border-inline`** property is a shorthand property that sets the width, style, and color of an element’s inline-start and inline-end borders. The physical sides affected depend on the writing mode and text direction.

## Syntax

```pseudo
border-inline: <value>;
```

**Parameters:**

- `<value>`: May include one or more of the following, in any order:
  - `<line-width>`: Sets the border thickness (e.g., `1px`, `thin`, `medium`, `thick`).
  - `<line-style>`: Sets the border style (e.g., `solid`, `dashed`, `dotted`, `double`, `none`).
  - `<color>`: Sets the border color (e.g., `red`, `#333`, `rgb(0 0 0)`).
  - **Global values:** `inherit`, `initial`, `revert`, `revert-layer`, `unset`.

If a single value is provided, it applies to both inline-start and inline-end borders.

**Return value:**

None. Sets the computed values of `border-inline-start` and `border-inline-end`.

## Example 1

The following example sets the inline borders of the `p` element to be blue, 2 pixels thick, and solid:

```css
p {
  border-inline: 2px solid blue;
}
```

## Example 2

The following example set the inline borders of the `div` element to be red, 5 pixels thick, and dashed:

```css
div {
  border-inline: dashed 5px red;
}
```

In a left-to-right writing mode, this applies borders to the left and right sides of the element. In a right-to-left writing mode, the inline start and end sides adjust automatically.
