content/python/concepts/binascii-module/terms/b2a-uu/b2a-uu.md, before:

---
Title: 'The Title' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'A brief description.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'A tag'
  - 'A second tag'
  - 'An nth tag'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'paths/example-path'
---

[A brief definition - make sure first mention of term is in **bold**.]

## Syntax

[Text, code, images, parameters, etc. about the syntax]

## Example

[Text, code, images, etc. about example 1]

## Codebyte Example (if applicable)

We can currently support:

- Python
- JavaScript
- Ruby
- C++
- C#
- Go
- PHP

See [content-standards.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md) for more details!

```codebyte/js
# Example runnable code block.
console.log('Hello, World!');
```

Commit message:

Added basic definition, syntax, and example

content/python/concepts/binascii-module/terms/b2a-uu/b2a-uu.md, after:

---
Title: '.a2b_uu()'
Description: 'Returns UUEncode formatted ASCII data from binary data.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Encoding'
  - 'Unicode'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'paths/example-path'
# links for me while writing
# https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md
# https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md
---

The **.b2a_uu()** function returns ASCII data in the UUEncode format from binary data.

## Syntax

```pseudo
binascii.b2a_uu(data, *, backtick=false)
```

- data: The binary data to be converted.
- backtick: If true, replaces 0's with `.

## Example

```py
import binascii

# Create binary data to encode
binaryData = b"some text"

# Encode the binary data to ASCII in the UUEncode format
encodedData = binascii.b2a_uu(binaryData)

print(encodedData)
```

This example outputs:

```shell
b')<V]M92!T97AT\n'
```
