content/pillow/concepts/image/terms/crop/crop.md, before:

---
Title: '.crop()'
Description: 'Returns an image cropped to a specified rectangular area.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Computer Vision'
  - 'Images'
  - 'Pillow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

In the Pillow library, the **`.crop()`** method is used to return a cropped rectangular area from an image. Pillow, a fork of the Python Imaging Library (PIL), offers extensive file format support and additional image processing methods. The Pillow library can be installed locally with [pip](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/pip).

## Syntax

```pseudo
Image.crop(box=None)
```

- `box`:  It is a 4-tuple representing the rectangular area to be cropped. This tuple comprises four integer values `(left, upper, right, lower)` that signify the coordinates of the left, upper, right, and lower edges of the area to be cropped.

## Example

The following example uses `.crop()` to return an area within the provided image:

```py
from PIL import Image

# The original image has a size of 1024x768 pixels.
with Image.open('Photo.jpeg') as photo:

    # 
    # Assigning the desired crop region. This can be envisioned as (x1, y1, x2, y2).
    (left, upper, right, lower) = (100, 100, 600, 600)

    # "croppedVarName" will be the variable that holds our new cropped image.
    croppedVarName = photo.crop((left, upper, right, lower))

    # Displays the cropped image in a new window.
    croppedVarName.show()
    
```
![Crop Results](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/pillow-crop.png)

Commit message:

Show original and output as seperate images

content/pillow/concepts/image/terms/crop/crop.md, after:

---
Title: '.crop()'
Description: 'Returns an image cropped to a specified rectangular area.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Computer Vision'
  - 'Images'
  - 'Pillow'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

In the Pillow library, the **`.crop()`** method is used to return a cropped rectangular area from an image. Pillow, a fork of the Python Imaging Library (PIL), offers extensive file format support and additional image processing methods. The Pillow library can be installed locally with [pip](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/pip).

## Syntax

```pseudo
Image.crop(box=None)
```

- `box`:  It is a 4-tuple representing the rectangular area to be cropped. This tuple comprises four integer values `(left, upper, right, lower)` that signify the coordinates of the left, upper, right, and lower edges of the area to be cropped.

## Example

The following example uses `.crop()` to return an area within the provided image:

```py
from PIL import Image

# The original image has a size of 1024x768 pixels.
with Image.open('Photo.jpeg') as photo:

    # Displays the original image in a new window.
    photo.show()
    
    # Assigning the desired crop region. This can be envisioned as (x1, y1, x2, y2).
    (left, upper, right, lower) = (100, 100, 600, 600)

    # "croppedVarName" will be the variable that holds our new cropped image.
    croppedVarName = photo.crop((left, upper, right, lower))

    # Displays the cropped image in a new window.
    croppedVarName.show()
    
```

The code above produces the following output:
```
![Original](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/pillow-original.png)

![Crop Results](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/pillow-crop.png)

```
