content/general/concepts/software-testing/software-testing.md, before:

---
Title: 'Software Testing'
Description: 'Software testing refers to the process of verifying and evaluating the function of a software application or product.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Conceptual'
  - 'Developer Tools'
  - 'Development'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-testing-for-web-development'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

<link rel="canonical" href="https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/what-is-software-testing/" />

**Software testing** is the process of verifying and evaluating the functionality of a software application or product. It reduces and eliminates bugs, and mitigates the long-term costs for a company in terms of any fixes and updates that would be needed.

## Testing Types

There are several kinds of software testing with varying degrees of specificity, including the following:

- Usability tests can be performed on one or a combination of tasks to see how the programming functions in different user-based scenarios.
- Acceptance testing involves checking to make sure the several functions of a system work as expected.
- Regression testing assesses the impact of new features and helps engineers adjust how each feature affects with the program overall.
- Integration testing aims to figure out how well different components of the app work with each other.
- [Unit testing](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/unit-testing) attempts to see how different units of code perform in isolation from the rest of the program.
- Through functional testing, engineers can see how software accomplishes specific, intended purposes.
- Stress tests accesses the performance of programs during worst-case scenarios to understand if and how it breaks.
- Performance testing reveals how the program will perform in more common, real-world scenarios.

## Testing Strategies

Two specific techniques are used to assess the stability and performance of software: black-box and white-box testing. Each offers a different perspective into how well the source code holds up.

- Black-box testing involves testing software without looking inside — the coding, systems, and dependencies.
- White-box testing aims to examine the structure within the application, or the inner workings of the app, as opposed to its overall functionality.

## Languages Used in Testing

Some programming languages that are commonly used for testing software include the following:

- [Java](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java)
- [Python](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python)
- [Ruby](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ruby)

Commit message:

Improved intro about software testing, providing more context.

content/general/concepts/software-testing/software-testing.md, after:

---
Title: 'Software Testing'
Description: 'Software testing refers to the process of verifying and evaluating the function of a software application or product.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Conceptual'
  - 'Developer Tools'
  - 'Development'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-testing-for-web-development'
  - 'paths/full-stack-engineer-career-path'
---

<link rel="canonical" href="https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/what-is-software-testing/" />

**Software testing** is the process of verifying and evaluating the functionality of a software application or product. It reduces and eliminates bugs, and mitigates the long-term costs for a company in terms of any fixes and updates that would be needed.

It is most common to initiate during the [design phase](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cyclee) and can even occur after the product is deployed into production. Different [testing methodologies](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/software-development-life-cycle) are available to suit different project objectives.

The most popular objectives of software testing are:
- Checking whether the actual software matches the expected requirements and ensuring the software is bug-free.
- Identify errors, faults, or missing requirements in contrast to actual requirements.

## Testing Types

There are several kinds of software testing with varying degrees of specificity, including the following:

- Usability tests can be performed on one or a combination of tasks to see how the programming functions in different user-based scenarios.
- Acceptance testing involves checking to make sure the several functions of a system work as expected.
- Regression testing assesses the impact of new features and helps engineers adjust how each feature affects with the program overall.
- Integration testing aims to figure out how well different components of the app work with each other.
- [Unit testing](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/unit-testing) attempts to see how different units of code perform in isolation from the rest of the program.
- Through functional testing, engineers can see how software accomplishes specific, intended purposes.
- Stress tests accesses the performance of programs during worst-case scenarios to understand if and how it breaks.
- Performance testing reveals how the program will perform in more common, real-world scenarios.

## Testing Strategies

Two specific techniques are used to assess the stability and performance of software: black-box and white-box testing. Each offers a different perspective into how well the source code holds up.

- Black-box testing involves testing software without looking inside — the coding, systems, and dependencies.
- White-box testing aims to examine the structure within the application, or the inner workings of the app, as opposed to its overall functionality.

## Languages Used in Testing

Some programming languages that are commonly used for testing software include the following:

- [Java](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java)
- [Python](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python)
- [Ruby](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ruby)
